.\" Ouroboros man pages CC-BY 2017 - 2019
.\" Dimitri Staessens <dimitri.staessens@ugent.be>
.\" Sander Vrijders <sander.vrijders@ugent.be>

.TH OUROBOROS-GLOSSARY 7 2017-12-02 Ouroboros "Ouroboros User Manual"

.SH NAME

ouroboros-glossary - The Ouroboros Glossary

.SH SYNOPSIS
 *

.SH USER MANUAL GLOSSARY
.PP
address
.RS 4
an element of a partially ordered set (POSET) consisting of data
transfer component namespaces within an IPC process
.RE

.PP
bind a name
.RS 4
to associate a name with a program or process. This mapping is stored
in the IRMd.
.RE

.PP
bootstrap
.RS 4
to configure an IPCP and start it as the first member of a layer.
.RE

.PP
congestion control
.RS 4
the mechanism by which a server layer controls its resources and
prevents its client processes from sending more information than it
can currently handle. This is orthogonal to flow control.
.RE

.PP
directory
.RS 4
the database that keeps a mapping between an address and a registered
hash. In Ouroboros, the default implementation is a Distributed Hash
Table.
.RE

.PP
enrolment
.RS 4
the action of connecting to a member of an existing layer, retrieving
the bootstrap information and starting the IPCP as a new member of
that layer.
.RE

.PP
flow
.RS 4
the system and network resources over which two processes can send
information. A flow is an abstraction of the actual underlying IPC
mechanism and has a quality of service (QoS) associated with it, which
reflects externally measurable quantities such as delay, jitter,
bandwidth, loss and bit error rate.
.RE

.PP
flow allocator
.RS 4
the component of an IPCP that reserves the resources for a flow
towards a given registered hash.
.RE

.PP
flow control
.RS 4
the mechanism with which the destination endpoint of a connection
controls the source to prevent the source from sending more
information than the destination can currently handle. This is
orthogonal to congestion control.
.RE

.PP
flow descriptor
.RS 4
an integer used as a handle to a flow (a port ID) within an
application.
.RE

.PP
inter process communication (IPC)
.RS 4
the mechanisms that allow processes to share information.
.RE

.PP
IPC process
.RS 4
a process that allocates and manages the necessary resources within a
layer to allow IPC between processes that are clients of that layer.
.RE

.PP
IPC resource manager (IRM)
.RS 4
the process that manages local IPC and IPCPs (providing remote IPC).
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBouroboros-tutorial\fR(7)\fB, ouroboros\fR(8)

.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the Ouroboros project, found at
http://ouroboros.rocks

These man pages are licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution
4.0 International License. To view a copy of this license, visit
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
