.\" Ouroboros man pages (C) 2017
.\" Dimitri Staessens <dimitri.staessens@ugent.be>
.\" Sander Vrijders <sander.vrijders@ugent.be>

.TH OUROBOROS_INIT 3 2017-04-10 GNU "Ouroboros Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME

ouroboros_init, ouroboros_fini \- initialize and finalize an
application for using Ouroboros

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <ouroboros/dev.h>

\fBint ouroboros_init(char * \fIapn\fB);\fR

\fBvoid ouroboros_fini(void);\fR

Compile and link with \fI-louroboros\fR.

.SH DESCRIPTION

The \fBouroboros_init\fR() call initializes an application process
instance for using the Ouroboros IPC infrastructure. If the
application is a server or peer, a \fBchar * \fIapn\fR has to be
provided indicating the application process that this instance belongs
to. This is usually argv[0]. A client application may pass NULL. The
\fBouroboros_fini\fR() call will release all resources allocated by
\fBouroboros_fini\fR().

\fBouroboros_init\fR() and \fBouroboros_fini\fR() should be called
only once in the application.

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, \fBouroboros_init\fR() returns 0. On failure, a negative
value indicating the error will be returned. The
\fBouroboros_fini\fR() function has no return value.

.SH ERRORS

\fBouroboros_init\fR() can return the following errors:

.B -EIRMD
Failed to contact an IRMd instance.

.B -ENOMEM
Insufficient system resources to intialize the application.

.SH ATTRIBUTES

For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
\fBattributes\fR(7).

.TS
box, tab(&);
LB|LB|LB
L|L|L.
Interface & Attribute & Value
_
\fBouroboros_init\fR() & Thread safety & MT-Safe
_
\fBouroboros_fini\fR() & Thread safety & MT-Safe
.TE

.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the Ouroboros project, found at
https://bitbucket.org/ouroboros-rina/ouroboros
